In this video we're going to be
running the difference tool as
when we created the buffer
we can see that the buffer zone
of the oil rig overlaps with our
proposed No take zone.
As the oil rig is already
established, we need to create
our No Take zone around the
buffer of the oil rig, the one
kilometre buffer zone.
And so we want to remove this
section of our No Take layer so
that it doesn't have any
overlaps with this buffer.
So let's go in the toolbox and
open up the difference tool.
It's under vector overlay and we
need to put in our input layer.
So this is the layer that we're
removing or cutting away from.
And so that's our new no take
layer.
And then the overlay layer is
what layer is going to tell QGIS
where to cut this layer.
And so that's going to be the
oil rig buffer.
And then the last thing we need
to do is just choose where to
save the new layer that it's
going to create to.
So we're going to save it to Geo
package like normal, choose our
Geo package and then we'll
choose our layer name.
And so we're going to call it No
Take final,  and click OK and
then we'll run the tool.
And now if we toggle off the oil
rig buffer layer and the
original no take layer, we can
see that our new new layer has
that chunk taken out of it where
the buffer was overlapping.
So you can right click on this
new layer and click Zoom to
layer and we can see it's
exactly the same as the layer
before except it's taken the cut
out here the section out here
where the buffer was overlapping
and so that's how to run the
difference tool in QGIS.
So as always, just hit save to
save your progress.